Alright! In this video, we are going to start
implementing some tests so the first one
I wanna do is down here,
number 49, to write CRUD test for the
Owner Map Service. So remember, we have
that map service. I'm gonna go ahead and
assign this to myself and we will get
started on issue number 49. What
we wanna do is write some CRUD, that's
Create Read Update Delete for our map
service, the map implementations. I'm
gonnao jump over to IntelliJ now.
If you remember, that was back in pet-clinic-data under services and in the
map package and the class that we're
gonna test is this OwnerMapService.
So we can see that this is a default
service. It's very simple HashMap
implementation. What we wanna do is
go ahead and implement a test for this.
So what we can do is come up here.
I'm gonna hit option enter. That's on the
Mac. We are going to come in and
create a test. You can see here, we
got JUnit 5, so that's what we want to
do. I'm going to select all the methods
here. This is a handy way to quickly
generate the test this through IntelliJ.
I'm also gonna do a
setUp class, so we wanna set things up
for this. I'm gonna say go ahead and okay
on that, and now I have this. One
thing when I'm writing tests in IntelliJ,
I like to come up here and do a split
horizontally. And now, what I can do is I
can close that guy out. Now I have the
class under test up here so I can see it
as I refer to it. And then, down in the
bottom panel I have the test that
I'm writing.
What I wanna do is come up here. We
are gonna need a PetService. So I'm
gonna come in here and say...
Actually, I don't even need to do that. I
only need the OwnerMapService. So
coming in here,
like so. I started to do that and
that is out of habit. In this case, we
have HashMap implementations and
normally, for actual implementation, I
would be using Mockito but I'm gonna
show you that in a future video. This is
a very simple HashMap service so there's
no reason I can't use the actual
implementations of those. In here, I'm
defining this and let's come in and say
ownerMapService equals new and now I
got to get provided an implementation of
PetTypeService.
I'm gonna do the concrete.
You can see that we have the interface.
So I've coded to the interface of PetTypeService. Now I'm gonna give it an
implementation of PetTypeMapService.
Now I can do the same here for the pet
service.
Effectively, what I'm doing here is I'm
mimicking what Spring is going to do for
us in the Spring Context, Spring is going
to do this wiring for us so I am in the
before the setup. I am basically doing
the dependency injection for this. I
can also see that map with some data so
I can say ownerMapService.save() and
I could say Owner.builder. I don't need a
lot of properties here. I'm just gonna do
1L to build like that.
What this is going to do is save the
owner like so. So now again,
basically, this initializes my OwnerMapService and puts one Owner object into
it. So now, I can do some interesting
stuff like, let's see here, ownerMapService.findAll()
and that's gonna provide a
Set. So let's come in and do
like so. I can come in and do that. So
I'm gonna run that.
We can see here that that does
work. A good habit here, this 1L
I'm gonna do
so I'm gonna do that ownerId.
What I can do is replace this so now I can
come down here and say Owner
like so. Now I can test this up.
We already saw the save method
working but what if I want to actually
do a save here. Let's do
Owner owner2.
Remember in the map service here, we
are actually testing to see if it does
actually set that ID.
There's a couple things that we wanna
be testing here to see whether or not
it sets that ID, so I'm gonna say this
existing ID and I'm gonna refactor that,
Extract a variable, like so.
Let's call that ID, that's good. Now I can say assertEquals
and it wasn't happy there because of the
autoboxing. So saveExistingId().
I'm gonna do command N, create a test
method.
So saveNoId(), we're expecting it to
establish an ID. So I can say Owner
saved so I can run a couple assertions on
there to make sure that functionality is
working, so let's run this guy. I'm sure
he's happy.
That passed.
Also, we'll make sure that this guy is
happy as well. Now what we can do is
map service delete.
Let's see here. We didn't actually do
that so we can do
and we could say
assertEquals(0).
Let's do
ownerMapService.findAll().size() because remember what's gonna
happen here is the Before method is gonna run. This is gonna run before each
method and I wanna make sure that I'm
basically gonna delete the one that I
added. So I'm gonna say findById() and
then delete that one so that should
return back a zero because there's only
gonna be one in there. You can see
that does in fact work.
Let's see here. You can do also ownerMapService.deleteById(ownerId).
We can do that same assertion here.
The difference being, in the first one,
I'm using the map service to return back
the object so I'm deleting by the object,
and in the second one, I'm deleting by
the ID. So subtle but important
difference.
And now, we have findByLastName().
Let's come up here and do...
So now what we wanna do set Smith.
Of course, we need to add that in.
Again I'm using these constants here
so I don't wanna be redefining those
all over the place so I'm gonna add
those constants into the test. I can
come down here and say Owner
findByLastName() and lastName
and my Smith should not be null and assertEquals
ownerId. That should be ID of one, right?
Like so. So now, I can come in and run this.
We can see that this expected not
null. Let's take a closer at this.
So we ran into a problem there so it's
expecting a not null but apparently it
was null, so let's run this in debug to make
sure that is the case.
You can see I set the breakpoint there.
So I'm gonna come in. You can see
that Smith is indeed null. So let's take
a closer look at that.
So I'm saying lastName Smith and that is
not working.
Let's take a closer look at that and that is because that's
not implemented, so our tests did find a
problem. So that is a bad thing. Let's
come and implement that. I'm gonna
pause this a second and implement this.
Okay, I jumped ahead a little bit and we
got a little stream goodness going on
here. Just to step through those. We're
using Java 8 streams. I'm going to
this.findAll(). That's gonna give me a Set
from the underlying implementation which
is gonna be the map implementation.
I'm gonna say stream and then I'm gonna do a filter. I'm gonna filter the
results based on lastName equalsIgnoreCase(), so just a safety feature there.
Shouldn't need to do that for the test,
but for a String comparison, I'd
like to use ignore case especially on
something like the lastName. That'll
filter out any typos or inconsistent
case, and then I'm doing findFirst().
This here, that findFirst(), that's gonna return back an Optional. The
method wants an owner and we're not
doing an option on there so I'm gonna
say or else null.
Let's do Id. Correct a little typo there.
Now we can come in here
and say that. We can see that is
actually there. I'm gonna copy this
test here and come in.
We wanna make sure this behaves
okay. I say foo and that is not gonna
be there. And now I'm gonna change
this to a assertNull.
I'm expecting the Owner smith to be
not fouling. I'm expecting the method to
return back a null here. So I'm gonna say
go ahead and do that.
Even though nulls are evil, we're
gonna do that. We're just gonna set up
these tests. So now, I've come in and I'm
gonna run all the tests here.
Expand this out a little bit.
We can see that in just a few
minutes I wrote test to completely test
the different CRUD operations of our
map service. Now I am not going to go in
and implement tests for each one of the
map services. If you want and it has not
been implemented, go ahead and write a
test and submit a pull request and I
will pull it into the project. But I
think it'd be a little redundant to do
every type here. I think it kind of get the
gist of using JUnit 5 and testing the
map service, and here, I could have. I'm
not testing interactions with either the
pet type service or the PetMapService.
I am going to test that with Mockito in
a future test. I could write specific
tests for those. Again, if that's
something that you want to see, go ahead
and modify this and send me a pull
request and I will include it in a,
into the source code and
possibly a future video. And the last step
I have to do is go ahead and commit this.
I say Git Commit Directory and if I
remember that was number 49. Yep, number 49.
I'll go ahead and close out
that issue and I will push it up to
GitHub and it'll be there for you.